So talk about the complexity of bugs.
My students built the computing infrastructure
for standee and computers and power systems.
And we had a backup battery in case
our main battery failed and all these wonderful things,
and everything worked fine.
For months, we would go out every day and drive the car until summer hit.
Summer hit, and we broke an alternator. It just was fried.
So we took the engine out,
put an alternator in,
kept driving. We broke another alternator.
We took the engine out, engine back in,
and it invokes on tour it gets an expensive procedure to replace alternator,
and to cap off another half week, alternator problem.
No clue what's happening.
Now, we measured everything.
We went into the system,
try to understand anything more about the- but the load of the alternator was just fine.
We couldn't find anything. And then,
it turned out to be one of this really bizarre bugs.
The students had tried to make a distinction,
is the car running or not,
and normally the car is running,
it supplies enough voltage that the voltage of our system exceeds 12.5 volts.
So they would say, if the car is running,
we take the power from our main car source,
turn it off but it is not running,
we take it from the spare battery, okay?
So the car was running.
It was warm, the air conditioned was full blast,
and even though it's running the voltage drops just
below 12.5 volt which told our system,
oh cars off, sure it's off,
cars off, reserve battery.
So our power system would go from full draw of power from the cause alternator,
to zero at all within a tenth of a second.
Now of course the moment it took the power away from the main car,
it recovers, and the voltage goes above 12.5 volt.
In which case our passes went back with the car.
So we effectively were switching between full load
and zero load 10 times a second for the alternator.
Now when we use digital volt meters,
we couldn't see it, because it will smooth it out.
We had to take an analog altimeter to see all these bumps and realize,
oh my God on average we're doing fine but in reality,
we're drawing 100 and 0 amp, a 100 and 0 amp,
a 100 and 0 amp within like,
10th of seconds to each other,
and that cause the alternators to break.
Again it took us forever to find this bug,
and I'm so glad we found it.